This simple, lightweight tool extracts tagged lines from a source file.   The extracted lines are each prefaced by specific text (the optional [[named parameter]] `tag`) that indicates that the line should be extracted.  The named parameter `file` names the destination file that should contain the extracted text.  The last line of the destination file will (by default, unless `nocomment=true`) contain a line reminding the reader that the file is automatically generated, so the extracted copy should not be edited.

Instead to being catenated into a file, the extracted lines may be parsed by an interpreter named by the named parameter `run`.  This named parameter may include options to the interpreter; the tag in the source file is expected to be only the name of the interpreter, which is the first word of the named parameter `run`.

This all may be considered as simply elaborate commenting, which changes the context of a source code file from comments-in-code to code-in-comments.  The embedded lines are catenated into the destination file, or to the interpreter, in the same order that they appear in the source file.  So this method does not perform one of the most important functions of [[literate programming]]: to reorder portions of the program [in a pedagogical order](https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2016/07/06/literate-programming-presenting-code-in-human-order/), and embed portions within other portions.  On the other hand, it's easier to find parts of the program, since they appear in the expected order of execution, in the same order as in the extracted file, and the code is fully expanded into its final form.

###### Usage

Extract this code to a script called `lit`.

```bash
sed -n 's,^	lit: ,,p' lit.md >lit
```

Test the script in the current directory.

	chmod +x lit
	host obsid which lit

This will just error, saying that the variable `lit` is not defined.

	host obsid lit

Print the file as extracted.

	host ./lit 'lit=lit.md' 'file=lit' 'run=cat'

List the available tags to extract from one [[literate program]] file.

	host ./lit 'lit=lit.md'

###### Code

	lit: #!/usr/bin/env bash

	lit: set -eu
	lit: set -o pipefail

	lit: self=$(basename $0)

See [[argenv]].

	lit: for arg in "$@"; do
	lit: 	if echo "$arg" | grep '=' >/dev/null 2>&1; then
	lit: 		arg_name=$(echo $arg | sed 's =.*  ')
	lit: 		arg_value=$(echo $arg | sed 's ^[^=]*=  ')
	lit: 		eval ${arg_name}='${arg_value}'
	lit: 		shift
	lit: 	else
	lit: 		break
	lit: 	fi
	lit: done

	lit: test -n "$lit"

	lit: tag=${tag-}

	lit: file=${file-}
	lit: if test -n "$file"; then
	lit: 	dir=$(dirname $file)

If we have a file and we don't have a tag, expect the file to be the tag.

	lit: 	if test -z "$tag"; then
	lit: 		tag=$file
	lit: 	fi
	lit: 	if ! test -d "$dir"; then
	lit: 		mkdir -p $dir
	lit: 	fi

Extract code lines from the literate program file, and remove the tag.

	lit: 	sed -n "s,^	${tag}: ,,p" $lit >$file

It shouldn't hurt to make the resulting file executable, even if it won't be executed directly.

	lit: 	chmod +x $file

Let the reader know that this file was generated, so should not be edited, since the edits will disappear the next time the file is generated.

	lit: 	nocomment=${nocomment-false}
	lit: 	if ! $nocomment; then
	lit: 		case $file in
	lit: 		    *.c|*.h)
	lit: 		        echo "/* DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.  Auto-generated from $lit by $self. */" >>$file
	lit: 		        ;;
	lit: 		    *)
	lit: 		        echo "# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.  Auto-generated from $lit by $self." >>$file
	lit: 		        ;;
	lit: 		esac
	lit: 	fi

	lit: 	ext=$(echo $file | sed 's .*\.  ')
	lit: fi

	lit: run=${run-}
	lit: if test -n "$run"; then

Set the tag to the name of the interpreter, without any options after the first whitespace.

	lit: 	tag=${tag:-$(echo $run | sed 's,[	 ].*$,,')}
	lit: 	ext=$tag

If the tag is the name of a language, use the language's usual extension.

	lit: 	case $tag in
	lit: 		perl)
	lit: 			ext=pl
	lit: 			;;
	lit: 		python)
	lit: 			ext=py
	lit: 			;;
	lit: 		ruby)
	lit: 			ext=rb
	lit: 			;;
	lit: 	esac

	lit: 	sed -n "s,^	${tag}: ,,p" $lit >${lit}.${ext}

Run the extracted file with the given interpreter.

	lit: 	$run ${lit}.${ext} "$@"
	lit: fi

If we're not given a tag, list tags available in the given file.

	lit: if test -z "$tag"; then
	lit: 	sed -n 's,^	\([^: ]\+\): .*,\1,p' $lit | sort | uniq
	lit: fi
